---
title: 202110102130 SSH Tunneling 
slug: 2021-10-10
date: 2021-10-10
tags: SSH, commandline, hacking
public: true
---

#  202110102130 SSH Tunneling
#SSH #commandline #hacking
## Local port forwarding
Mount port 80 of the external host (remote server `home.local`) to the port `8080`of the local host. The `-N` flag prevents the initiation of an interactive session. 
```shell
ssh -N -L 8080:localhost:80 eetietshekken@home.local
```

## Remote port forwarding
Also called *SSH Reverse tunneling*. Redirects the remote server's port to the local host's port. The client initiates the connection, then a tunnel is created (a socket listener is initiated by the server at the defined port) to forward incoming traffic to the server back to the client. It can be achieved with the `-R` flag. For example:
```shell
ssh -N -R 8080:localhost:1234 eetietshekken@home.local
```
In order to make this work, it's also necessary to adjust the `GatewayPorts`default setting
```shell
sudo sed -i 's/#\?GatewayPorts.*/GatewayPorts yes/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
sudo service ssh restart
```
## Dynamic port forwarding
When, for example, traffic is blocked by your ISP or your organization, but an outbound `ssh` connection is allowed, then a **SOCKS5** proxy server can be setup that allows traffic to be forwarded from whatever protocol/type to any address. The client takes initiative and starts a **SOCKS5** proxy at the server side. He defines a local address where his browser could point to to allow **unrestricted access**. 
```shell
ssh -D localhost:6000 eetietshekken@home.local
```
## Nearly anonymous ssh session
#hacking #tor
Nearly anonymous ssh session can be established by using something like [torsocks](https://gitlab.torproject.org/legacy/trac/-/wikis/doc/torsocks) which routes your traffic through the TOR network using **SOCKS5** for the application referenced `torsocks <application>`. For example:
```shell
torsocks ssh eetietshekken@home.local
```
Or you could do the same using:
```shell
ssh -o ProxyCommand="nc -X 5 -x localhost:9050 %h %p" eetietshekken@home.local
```
The TOR instance should be up and running on your client at port `9050`.
## Source
Blogpost [by teleport](https://goteleport.com/blog/ssh-tunneling-explained/)
## Similar story?
The following list contains an overview of all **zettels** that have been created with the **same tags** assigned.
```dataview
list
from #SSH
```