---
title: Kali Linux on Rasberry Pi
slug: kali-linux-on-raspberry-pi
date: 2021-01-19
tags: kali, rpi, firstboot
public: true
---

# Vandaag 19 January 2021
## Kali linux on Raspberry Pi - Part 1
#kali #avahi #ssh #kalisetup #systemctl #firstboot
Kali linux policy is to hide it from the network. Services like `Bonjour` which I found out is build around `mDNS` won't start on wakeup. They are *disabled* in `/usr/sbin/update-rc.d`. Services as the `avahi-daemon` which enables `mDNS`, `ssh` and `postgresql` are disabled by default. For more information, see [Kali networking].

### Enable `avahi-daemon`
> Make `kali.local` discoverable

`avahi-daemon` is included in the default configuration. However, it's not configured.

```bash
sudo systemctl start avahi-daemon # Start the agent right away
sudo systemctl enable avahi-daemon # Start it on every reboot
```

We still need to adapt the `update-rc.d` file so the service will be enabled on startup.

```bash
sudo sed -i 's/avahi-daemon.*/avahi-daemon enabled/' /usr/sbin/update-rc.d
```

### Enable `ssh`

Enabling the `ssh` agent involves the same steps required to enable `avahi`. 

```bash
sudo systemctl start ssh # Start the agent right away
sudo systemctl enable ssh # Start it on every reboot
```

However, `Kali Linux` will prevent the service to restart despite we enabled it. To allow the service to start automatically, we're required to enable it in the `/usr/sbin/update-rc.d` file.

```bash
sudo sed -i 's/ssh.*/ssh enabled/' /usr/sbin/update-rc.d
```

And if everything went right, you'll should get `ssh enabled` back when running: `cat /usr/sbin/update-rc.d | grep ssh`. 
> DANGER: Change default ssh key to avoid a MITM attack

By defaults, some keys are generated and stored in the `/etc/ssh/` directory. Move the keys and generate a new one.

```bash
cd /etc/ssh/ && sudo mkdir default_kali_keys
sudo mv ssh_host_* default_kali_keys/
```

Next, we generate a new keys using:

```bash
sudo dpkg-reconfigure openssh-server # Generate some new ssh keys
```

### MOTD - Message Of The Day
> Say something nice to your users

### Enable HEADLESS mode

We'll configure `kali` to run headless, to save power and memory. This can be enabled using:

```bash
sudo systemctl set-default multi-user.target # opposite of graphical.target
sudo systemctl get-default # shows new default mode
reboot
```

[Kali networking]: https://www.kali.org/docs/policy/kali-linux-network-service-policies/

