---
title:
slug: 
date: 2021-01-20
tags: 
public: true
---

# Vandaag 20 January 2021
## Kali linux on Raspberry Pi - Part 2
#kali #kalisetup #zsh #cmd/adduser
### Enable `zsh` as a default shell
The default *shell* is configured during the creation of the user account. It's configuration is stored in the `/etc/passwd` file. As a reminder, the directory `etc` stores *editable* system configuration files. I try to remember the `e` of `etc` as *editable*.  
#### Where is `zsh` located?
The first question which arises: *"Where is `zsh` located?"*. Let's find out, enter `which zsh` --> `/usr/bin/zsh` or enter `cat /etc/shells` to have an overview of all available shells --> `/bin/zsh`. At two locations, but are they refering to the same *data block*? The only way we can be sure, is to compare their `inode` number, the unique id that is assigned to each file. The `inode` can be retrieved using `ls`. Sure they are!

```shell
ls --inode /bin/zsh /usr/bin/zsh
```
#### Reconfigure the default *shell*
Next step is to adjust the `/etc/passwd` so our current user (`kali` in my case) uses `zsh` as a default.

```shell
cat /etc/passwd | grep kali # Find out which shell we're using right now
sudo sed -rie 's/^(.*):.*/\1:\/bin\/zsh/i' /etc/passwd 0> /dev/null 
# -r = extended regex; -i = change in place; -e = what follows is an expression 
# stdout ('standard output') is redirected to /dev/null OR you could use -n of `sed` as well
```
On reboot, you'll see a *Z Shell configuration function for new users* promp. Choose the settings of the system administrator to get started. A file called `~/.zshrc` is created in your home directory which containes the necessary settings.
#### Install *Oh-my-zsh*
*Zsh* is easy to extend and cofigure using *Oh-my-zsh*. This is a no-brainer. We need this.
```shell
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
rm .zshrc.pre-oh-my-zsh # Remove the old configuration file ohmyzsh saved
```
We'll install the theme `pure`, our preferable `zsh`theme. In the `.zshrc` file it's suggested where to install the theme. First we reset the them, since we're going to use a external theme. Afterwards, we'll install the new themes and plugins. #totd The term `rc` in `.zshrc` stands for `run commands` and is used to identify files which contain startup information about a command.  

```shell
sed -i 's/ZSH_THEME=.*/ZSH_THEME=""/' ~/.zshrc
git clone https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure.git "$ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/pure" # Install pure
git clone https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions "$ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/zsh-autosuggestions" # Install autosuggestions
git clone https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting "$ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/zsh-syntax-highlighting" # Install syntax highlighting
git clone https://github.com/supercrabtree/k "$ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/k" # Install k - an alternative directory listing
```

And add the plugins in your `.zshrc` file

```shell
sed -rie 's/plugins=\((.*?)\)/plugins=(\1 pure zsh-autosuggestions zsh-syntax-highlighting k)/' ~/.zshrc
cat .zshrc | grep plugins= # just to do a quick check
source ~/.zshrc # Run the configuration file again to adapt the new settings
```

A lot of plugins are installed out of the box, including `git`, `pip`, `python`, `postgres`,... You can have a look using `ls $ZSH/plugins`. To enable them, add them to your `.zshrc`. Previously we used a predefined `sed` command to add them, but you can use `vim` as well. 

Some more options are available to change the default shell (see [reference](https://www.tecmint.com/change-a-users-default-shell-in-linux/)) but I advise you to get used to the default tools like `sed`.

### Configure `git` server
In the past I figured out how to build a `git` server. It's not that complicated. It involves creating a new user with restricted rights. *Repositories* are just folder inside the home folder (which is the `git` folder for the user `git`). A `bare repo`is initialised inside the folder and is added as a remote to the user.

This idea has been explored in an earlier post - [[20201114#Git Repository op de Raspberry Pi]]. However, now I want to take the time to fully explore the process and to use only the bare essentials.

#### Step 1 - Create a new user
The first step involves the creation of a new user. I forgot which command I needed to create a new user so I did a quick search using `apropos`. What it does is it searches through all *man* (manual) pages for the keyword you're looking for. 

```shell
apropos "create.* user" # Search for this keyword
```

This results in 5 responses. One of them is `useradd`, this will be the one I guess. However, the first sentence in the description of the man page stages (`man useradd`): 

> useradd is a low level utility for adding users. On Debian, administrators should usually use adduser(8) instead.

So I need to use `adduser`... Ok --> `man adduser`

In general, there are 5 ways to use `adduser`:
1. Configure a *new* user
2. Configure a *new system* user
3. Configure a *new user* group
4. Configure a *new system* group
5. Add *existing* user to *existing* group   

We'll make a new *system* user since we're not using this as an account. 

```shell
sudo adduser --system \ # Create a system user
	--shell /bin/zsh \
	--uid 9000 \ # Specify a unique user id - can be ommited 
	--gecos 'Git Server' \ # Define the name of the account
	--group \ # Place new user in group with same id as the user itself
	--disabled-password \ # No login is possible using a pw, only ssh-keys
	--home /home/git \ # The home directory
	git # The name of the user
```

To login into the account, use `sudo su - git`. It's a passwordless account. We'll need a `.ssh` folder to store the `known_hosts` and our `ssh-key` which will be generated by the `ssh-agent`. To check if it's up and running, check the status of your daemons --> run `sudo systemctl status`. Doesn't look like our `ssh-agent` is running. 

